Hello and welcome back to the course and RBI in the first tutorial we connected to our data sets and
joined them.
So if we go to the relationships you'll see that we've got the join and the joins performed and manage
relationships join is performed on the order ID and today we're going to create our first map.
Very exciting to tour ahead.
So let's get started.
So the type of map we're going crazy is this one just a simple map.
There's also the other option the field map.
We want a bubble chart on our map or circles on the map so we're going to select this map all right.
And now what do we want to do is we want to fill this map using the geographical information contained
here.
So first things first we're going to create a hierarchy.
We're going to take We'll sort of state and we'll drag it on top of country and that will create a Harkee
country.
Are you here so we can rename this hurricane.
We can we can call that geography.
And as you can see this created a hurricane with that country and then state under it.
Now I'll show another way to do this.
I'm just going to delete this.
Another way to do the same procedure is to right click your field country in this case and say new hire.
And that also creates a hierarchy except this time there's only one element in it.
For now he's just going to hold geography.
And now we're going to add the other elements so we're going to add state into this hierarchy it is
dragging on a of geography and then we're going to see.
And so if you got them in the wrong order you can always move them around but just make sure that it
makes sense in which order they are so your country state and city.
Now we have another geographical element which is region but in reality region is kind of a an element
that we've come up with just for this data set.
It's not something that's recognized and it could be different in different.
It could be different in different interpretations.
So if we just have a look at it here so this the borders you'll see that region is like Central or east
west and so and so this is not something that's usually recognized by business intelligence tools.
So we're not going to use this you know sugarfree.
All right so there's our you know we're going to drag hierarchy onto this location and that creates
this map.
And now I'm going to show you something interesting.
So right now we've got these countries and.
Is correct.
We are working in Europe now.
However if I start drilling down so I want to expand the hierarchy to the next level to the state level
Let's get a second to think about what's going on.
Again this like what you're seeing here is that nothing really happens.
The states we're looking at country and state but we're still seeing only one element actually.
In fact there are several circles you can tell by the darkness of the circle that there's several of
them under each other but they're just all being plotted in the same spot.
And also if I expand to the city level you'll see that some of our cities end up in America because
they are our cities with the same names in the US.
So basically what this is showing us is that there are some inefficiencies still in the way these maps
and hurricanes work in Palm Beach.
And as always part be-I are constantly working on these things and proving all the time.
So maybe even when you're watching this video these slight issues have been resolved.
But for now the safest way to deal with maps especially maps where we were trying to plot like a scatterplot
or portray some information.
It's not just the country level but at the city or state level.
The best way to go about it is to use latitude along as it should.
And we've got the latitude and longitude inside this dataset.
So let's go ahead and use them.
I'm going to go back to the highest level so the country level and now I'm going to take latitude and
drag it onto the latitude field and longitude onto the longitude field.
Now if we look in the data set latitude and longitude are given to us for every single row meaning so
that this transaction was performed in Denmark Copenhagen.
Right.
So therefore that's the latitude and longitude of this transaction in Spain and so on.
So when you do it at a country level naturally it has to take the average and just look out for that
so sometimes you might have a country which has a weird shape and then your roads or your transactions
in that country were conducted in certain cities that this average might actually fall outside of the
country and fall into another country so you have to call for that in that case you might want to use
something like the median of the latitude and longitude so that it's not that affected by outliers.
I find that when you use the median it is better aligned with the capital of the city somehow.
So you've got stold Rome you know Helsinki Oslo and so on and so you can see that it's actually falling
in some countries not in all.
So here in Italy for instance falling in Rome.
So I'm going to undo that.
I'm going to press cancel that and just leave it an average.
But look out for that.
Just find the best approach for your specific situation.
So there we go that's how we've created this map now which you'll see is if we drill further down.
Now at the state level we've got all the states so for instance in France we've got all these states
popping up.
And if we're again for each state the location of this bubble is given by the average of the latitude
and longitude for the transactions that happened in that state.
And then if we go further down to the next level you can see again we've got even for the cities we've
got all the latitude and longitude.
Correct and this time it's spot on because if a certain number of transactions happen in the same city
they'll have the same latitude and longitude and therefore the circle will be exactly on that city.
So that's how we create a map with our hierarchies.
And now we can just go back up so probably not at that level.
That's probably not the best.
So yeah there's still a couple of things to look out for and hopefully maps will improve probably by
constantly improving their product and hopefully maps will improve over time.
But if you can get a latitude and longitude it's often not that hard to find those parameters based
on your data set.
It's always a good idea to just add them in and like be on the safe side and also look out for the average
and the median and those things that we discussed.
So there we go that's our first step to creating our map and solving this challenge and elephants here.
Until then happy analyzing.